# Mentorship Summit Roundtable 15-04-2018 at Conf & Coffee 2018

## Links

* **Thread**: https://community.vancouvertech.com/t/mentorship-how-did-you-get-it-do-you-want-it-what-would-you-want-out-of-mentorship/26/5
* **Prior Minutes Google Doc**: n/a
* **Current Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h-U4VQkamYzoLjZv37M9NS-ZrJHb8esHqG19eWE-_ao/edit

## Present
* @pcreux (Philippe Creux)
* @calvintyvm (Calvin Ting)
* @vkord (Igor Barbashin)
* @rcass (Rose Cass)
* @chowdhurian (Manil Chowdhury)
* @leonardofaria (Leonardo Faria)
* @qard (Stephen Belanger)
* @trueskawka (Alicja Raszkowska)
* @caffodian (Alex Tsai)
* @nicholedlc (Nichole De La Cruz)

## Agenda
* How do you know you need a mentor?
* How do you connect a mentee with a mentor?
* Forms and structure of mentorship
* Mentee goals and needs
* Spaces for mentorship
* Creating local community and open source value (secondary)
* Resources that would be helpful to mentors and mentees
* What is mentorship? What can mentees expect?

## Notes

### How do you know you need a mentor?
* Is there a too early stage? Can the mentee make good use of the mentorship? People think that not giving help in a form they want equals not giving help at all. But the mentor’s needs do matter. They may want to give help in a certain context.
* Sometimes the guidance may have to do with the initial career decision and an answer to that itself is very useful. From a person who can tell you what it looks like down the line.
* We should set expectations about the mentorship we are willing to provide. Mentees should be expected to shoulder responsibilities about setting their direction.
* The mentee should be expected to know how to explain why they need a mentor.
* Early mentees may want guidance around how to think around a problem.
* You may know you need a mentor when you have a clear “ask”. The mentee needs to respect the mentor’s time. The problem should be defined.
* Some mentors don’t know they could be good mentors. Source: (?)Designing your life.
* Mentees could treat the interaction as an interview. With clear questions for the mentor.
* outofofficehours.com is a source of open mentorship.
* good prep guide for mentors/mentees
* The set of questions asked by the mentee could be posed to several people and it generated several answers.
* A situation where mentorship is most valuable is when “you don’t know what you don’t know.”
* How do we guide people who are overwhelmed with resources?
* Mentees should know how they learn. Else a mentor can’t help.
* Maybe we should tell them where to start using a tool. Or find a tool to recommend.
* Decide the stage at which we can provide mentorship. Mentorship is not answering a question.

### How do you connect a mentee with a mentor?
* University (esp. UBC -  https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/undergrad/careers/tri-mentoring-program) and college mentorship programs may be a good model for how we could structure this.
* You apply as a mentor (say what the specialties are), mentors say what they’re interested in.
* Both mentors and mentees get onboarding workshops.
* Both parties sign paperwork around the commitment.
* People could post an anonymous question in a central google doc, and people can claim a question to mentor.
* Mentorship could last for the duration of a specific need, short or long.

### Forms and structure of mentorship
* one to one, senior and junior
* peer to peer, like when you post on slack, or when the coworker goes to a conference and returns to share their learning
* pairing is mentorship. Encouraging people to have those small interactions encourages the good habits of programming.
* Two parts: first figuring out where you want to go, and then how you can get there. These can be served by more than one or two mentors.
* Be cognizant of the types of mentorship the mentor is willing to offer. Technical, career, etc.
* One to many. Facilitate team in the company to help with a specific technology or concept (e.g. explain GraphQL + Rails + React)
* Two spaces: within the company/team or in the community. Community mentorship can maybe work to solve career issues within the company of team.
* some mentorship issues can’t be resolved by mentorship within the company (examples here).
* Having a private safe space defined by rules agreed on by everyone, where questions are not judged.
* Review code of conduct and add [social rules](https://medium.com/@kraykray/rc-social-rules-fb11252177db) as they grow organically.

### TODOS
* TODO: set a forum with a private safe space (review the social rules of RC and adapt to incorporate). Social rules are separate from code of conduct.


### Resources
* https://bitwisehastings.files.wordpress.com/2018/01/the-facts.pdf
